README.md, before:

# AstroWeather

This is a *Custom Integration* for [Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/). It uses the forecast data from 7Timer! to create sensor data for Home Assistant. It uses the public [Machine-readable API](http://www.7timer.info/doc.php?lang=en#machine_readable_api) to pull data from 7Timer!.

![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/badge/release-v0.21.0-blue)
[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs)

There is currently support for the following entity types within Home Assistant:

* Sensor
* Binary Sensor
* Weather

Forecast data is provided by 7Timer! on a three *hourly* basis.

There is also a custom weather card available [here](https://github.com/mawinkler/astroweather-card).

Amongst other calculations, the deep sky viewing conditions are calculated out of the combination of cloud coverage, seeing and transparency. For this calculation the cloud coverage is weighted three times and seeing two times in relation to the transparency.

## Installation

### HACS installation

This Integration is part of the default HACS store, so go to the HACS page and search for *AstroWeather* within the integrations.

### Manual Installation

To add AstroWeather to your installation, create this folder structure in your /config directory:

`custom_components/astroweather`.

Then drop the following files into that folder:

```yaml
__init__.py
binary_sensor.py
config_flow.py
const.py
entity.py
manifest.json
sensor.py
strings.json
weather.py
translation (Directory with all files)
```

## Configuration

To add AstroWeather to your installation, go to the Integration page inside the configuration panel and AstroWeather.

During installation you will have the option to:

- verify the longitude and latitude for the forecast
- set the elevation
- set the interval for updating forecast data
- set the weightings for cloud coverage, seeing, and transparency for the condition calculation

The interval for updating forecast data and the weightings can also be changed after you add the Integration, by using the *Options* link on the Integration widget.

## Lovelace

There is now a custom weather card available [here](https://github.com/mawinkler/astroweather-card).

## Entities

The following entities are being added to Home Assistant. All have a unique ID, so you can rename them to whatever you like afterwards.

***Binary Sensors:***

Name | Explanation
---- | -----------
binary_sensor.astroweather_deep_sky_view | True, if current conditions should allow deep sky observation.

***Sensors:***

Name | Explanation
---- | -----------
sensor.astroweather_10m_wind_direction | Wind direction at 10m height.
sensor.astroweather_10m_wind_speed | Wind speed in m/s
sensor.astroweather_10m_wind_speed_plain | Wind speed in plain text
sensor.astroweather_2m_relative_humidity | Relative humidity at 2m
sensor.astroweather_2m_temperature | Temperature at 2m in °C
sensor.astroweather_clouds | Cloud cover as a percentage
sensor.astroweather_cloudless | The inverse of cloud cover
sensor.astroweather_condition | Viewing conditions as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_condition_plain | Viewing conditions as plain text as a percentage range
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_today | Forecast for viewing conditions this evening as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_today_description | Forecast for viewing conditions this evening in plain text
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_today_plain | Forecast for viewing conditions this evening as *Good-Excellent-Good*
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_tomorrow | Forecast for viewing conditions tomorrow evening as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_tomorrow_desc | Forecast for viewing conditions tomorrow evening in plain text
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_tomorrow_plain | Forecast for viewing conditions tomorrow evening as *Good-Excellent-Good*
sensor.astroweather_elevation | Elevation configured for this AstroWeather instance
sensor.astroweather_latitude | Latitude configured for this AstroWeather instance
sensor.astroweather_longitude | Longitude configured for this AstroWeather instance
sensor.astroweather_forecast_length | The available time period of forecast data in hours
sensor.astroweather_lifted_index | Lifted index in degrees
sensor.astroweather_lifted_index_plain | Lifted index in plain text
sensor.astroweather_moon_altitude | Current Moon altitude in degrees
sensor.astroweather_moon_azimuth | Current Moon azimuth in degrees
sensor.astroweather_moon_next_rising | Next rising of the Moon
sensor.astroweather_moon_next_setting | Nect setting of the Moon
sensor.astroweather_moon_phase | Current Moon phase as a percentage
sensor.astroweather_precipitation_type | Expected Precipitation Type in plain text (snow, rain, frzr (freezing rain), icep (ice pellets), none)
sensor.astroweather_seeing | Seeing conditions as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_seeing_plain | Seeing conditions in plain text in arcsec range
sensor.astroweather_sun_altitude | Current Sun altitude in degrees
sensor.astroweather_sun_azimuth | Current Sun azimuth in degrees
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_rising | Next rising of the Sun, calculated for the civil twilight
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_rising_astronomical | Next rising of the Sun, calculated for the astronomical twilight (-18°)
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_setting | Next setting of the Sun, calculated for the civil twilight
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_setting_astronomical | Next setting of the Sun, calculated for the astronomical twilight (-18°)
sensor.astroweather_timestamp | Timestamp of current data
sensor.astroweather_transparency | Atmospheric transparency as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_transparency_plain | Atmospheric transparency in plain text in magnitudes

***Weather:***

Name | Explanation
---- | -----------
weather.astroweather_LONGITUDE_LATITUDE | An instance of a weather object for Home Assistant

It contains some of the sensor values as additional state attributes for use in the custome Lovelace card.

Commit message:

civil, nautical and astronomical sun calculations

README.md, after:

# AstroWeather

This is a *Custom Integration* for [Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/). It uses the forecast data from 7Timer! to create sensor data for Home Assistant. It uses the public [Machine-readable API](http://www.7timer.info/doc.php?lang=en#machine_readable_api) to pull data from 7Timer!.

![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/badge/release-v0.21.0-blue)
[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs)

There is currently support for the following entity types within Home Assistant:

* Sensor
* Binary Sensor
* Weather

Forecast data is provided by 7Timer! on a three *hourly* basis.

There is also a custom weather card available [here](https://github.com/mawinkler/astroweather-card).

Amongst other calculations, the deep sky viewing conditions are calculated out of the combination of cloud coverage, seeing and transparency. For this calculation the cloud coverage is weighted three times and seeing two times in relation to the transparency.

## Installation

### HACS installation

This Integration is part of the default HACS store, so go to the HACS page and search for *AstroWeather* within the integrations.

### Manual Installation

To add AstroWeather to your installation, create this folder structure in your /config directory:

`custom_components/astroweather`.

Then drop the following files into that folder:

```yaml
__init__.py
binary_sensor.py
config_flow.py
const.py
entity.py
manifest.json
sensor.py
strings.json
weather.py
translation (Directory with all files)
```

## Configuration

To add AstroWeather to your installation, go to the Integration page inside the configuration panel and AstroWeather.

During installation you will have the option to:

- verify the longitude and latitude for the forecast
- set the elevation
- set the interval for updating forecast data
- set the weightings for cloud coverage, seeing, and transparency for the condition calculation

The interval for updating forecast data and the weightings can also be changed after you add the Integration, by using the *Options* link on the Integration widget.

## Lovelace

There is now a custom weather card available [here](https://github.com/mawinkler/astroweather-card).

## Entities

The following entities are being added to Home Assistant. All have a unique ID, so you can rename them to whatever you like afterwards.

***Binary Sensors:***

Name | Explanation
---- | -----------
binary_sensor.astroweather_deep_sky_view | True, if current conditions should allow deep sky observation.

***Sensors:***

Name | Explanation
---- | -----------
sensor.astroweather_10m_wind_direction | Wind direction at 10m height.
sensor.astroweather_10m_wind_speed | Wind speed in m/s
sensor.astroweather_10m_wind_speed_plain | Wind speed in plain text
sensor.astroweather_2m_relative_humidity | Relative humidity at 2m
sensor.astroweather_2m_temperature | Temperature at 2m in °C
sensor.astroweather_clouds | Cloud cover as a percentage
sensor.astroweather_cloudless | The inverse of cloud cover
sensor.astroweather_condition | Viewing conditions as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_condition_plain | Viewing conditions as plain text as a percentage range
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_today | Forecast for viewing conditions this evening as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_today_description | Forecast for viewing conditions this evening in plain text
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_today_plain | Forecast for viewing conditions this evening as *Good-Excellent-Good*
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_tomorrow | Forecast for viewing conditions tomorrow evening as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_tomorrow_desc | Forecast for viewing conditions tomorrow evening in plain text
sensor.astroweather_deepsky_forecast_tomorrow_plain | Forecast for viewing conditions tomorrow evening as *Good-Excellent-Good*
sensor.astroweather_elevation | Elevation configured for this AstroWeather instance
sensor.astroweather_latitude | Latitude configured for this AstroWeather instance
sensor.astroweather_longitude | Longitude configured for this AstroWeather instance
sensor.astroweather_forecast_length | The available time period of forecast data in hours
sensor.astroweather_lifted_index | Lifted index in degrees
sensor.astroweather_lifted_index_plain | Lifted index in plain text
sensor.astroweather_moon_altitude | Current Moon altitude in degrees
sensor.astroweather_moon_azimuth | Current Moon azimuth in degrees
sensor.astroweather_moon_next_rising | Next rising of the Moon
sensor.astroweather_moon_next_setting | Nect setting of the Moon
sensor.astroweather_moon_phase | Current Moon phase as a percentage
sensor.astroweather_precipitation_type | Expected Precipitation Type in plain text (snow, rain, frzr (freezing rain), icep (ice pellets), none)
sensor.astroweather_seeing | Seeing conditions as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_seeing_plain | Seeing conditions in plain text in arcsec range
sensor.astroweather_sun_altitude | Current Sun altitude in degrees
sensor.astroweather_sun_azimuth | Current Sun azimuth in degrees
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_rising (-6°)| Next rising of the Sun, calculated for the civil dawn
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_rising_nautical | Next rising of the Sun, calculated for the nautical dawn (-12°)
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_rising_astronomical | Next rising of the Sun, calculated for the astronomical dawn (-18°)
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_setting (-6°) | Next setting of the Sun, calculated for the civil dawn
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_setting_nautical | Next setting of the Sun, calculated for the nautical dawn (-12°)
sensor.astroweather_sun_next_setting_astronomical | Next setting of the Sun, calculated for the astronomical dawn (-18°)
sensor.astroweather_timestamp | Timestamp of current data
sensor.astroweather_transparency | Atmospheric transparency as a percentage (the higher, the better)
sensor.astroweather_transparency_plain | Atmospheric transparency in plain text in magnitudes

***Weather:***

Name | Explanation
---- | -----------
weather.astroweather_LONGITUDE_LATITUDE | An instance of a weather object for Home Assistant

It contains some of the sensor values as additional state attributes for use in the custome Lovelace card.
